Joker is out in theaters now and my new
favorite thing is reading articles about
it Todd Phillips and his new film based
off the DC Comics character played by
Joaquin Phoenix has developed a lot of
controversy most of said controversy
developing before the movie was even
released and many people have things to
say including me so we're gonna talk
about it in spoiler form now because I
already did a review and if you saw my
review you know I really like this movie
I thought it was great as a Joker movie
I thought they had all the beats really
well although it reminded me too much of
Martin Scorsese films like taxi driver
and King of Comedy which I actually
rewatched after seeing Joker recently
just to kind of get my bearings on how
much was borrowed and how much was taken
and there's a lot and it remains my
biggest issue with the movie I just wish
that it was a little more original in
regards to its structure I don't think
the way Todd Phillips helmed the movie
is like the way Scorsese would direct a
film
but story wise if you've ever seen taxi
driver you can basically see where the
movies going one of my biggest concerns
during the film was the idea that Arthur
flex mother may have had an affair with
Thomas Wayne and that in some way he's
now related to Bruce Wayne and at first
I was like huh that must be the risk
that everyone's talking about the people
who saw it at festivals who were like
this movie's gonna destroy the planet I
was like oh is it because Batman and
Joker are half-brothers now but then
later Arthur realizes that his mother is
genuinely insane and she made all this
up and has been living in a fantasy
world so for a while I was kind of like
oh I don't know if I like that I mean I
love when things are changed I love when
risks are taken in movies but I just
thought that was an odd idea you know
just to like make Batman and Joker
straight-up half-brothers I guess it
could create some interesting tension
for future movies but since they're not
really saying this movie is gonna
connect to other films that might be
wasted anyway so I was happy when it
wasn't actually true but at the same
time it felt like a bit of a diversion
for the plot but I couldn't really
discuss that in my original video for
obvious reasons mega spoilers but I
actually do want to talk about some of
those initial reactions that came out of
festivals and the way I feel about them
and we'll get into that in a second but
let's continue talking about the film
Phoenix is so terrific in this movie
there are so many scenes where I felt so
terrible for this man the biggest of
which is when he finally gets his chance
to do stand-up and for like a minute he
can't even get his first joke out
because he has this condition that
causes uncontrollable laughter I nearly
cried and it has nothing to do with
siding with a mass murderer it's because
Phoenix is a phenomenal actor one of the
best of his generation but they just got
so many little beats with his character
right the idea that when he's first at
this club and he's taking notes when
another guy's up there doing stand-up
he's laughing at all the wrong times
he's kind of looking around like why is
everyone else laughing that wasn't funny
but then he laughs at the wrong part and
you can tell that he's just completely
disassociated with the rest of the world
around him there was quite a bit of talk
and concerned about the level of
violence in this film before it was
released to the public and I was
honestly expecting to see some really
fucked up shit
like I told my friend after the movie I
was fully expecting him to like rip a
guy's jaw off or something and there's
nothing like that in this movie in fact
the first actual killing that he does is
against some men who may be rapists who
don't get the opportunity to commit this
assault against a woman because he
starts laughing and she flees into
another tram and then they start beating
the shit out of him and he basically
kills them and defends himself but you
can tell that he enjoys it which is
where the dangerous aspect starts to
creep in that some people have felt
while watching this movie is the idea
that this guy doesn't seem to have
problem with what he did in fact even
says that there's a scene where he's
trying to get medical information about
his mother and he's like you know I did
something bad and I thought it was gonna
bother me but it hasn't and the dude
behind the counter is like what's that
and you you understand this guy behind
the counter because you're like whoa
that's hmm I don't know about that this
is not an easy move in regards to its
moral questions what it's trying to say
or what it might not be saying it asks
questions that are harsh that are
difficult to process it wants you to
think about what role we might have in
creating the Joker
it also has questions on its mind about
mental health I mean he seems to be
holding on to a thread when he's still
able to go to a therapist but when the
funding for that social work is cut he
can no longer go and after that he
doesn't even know where to go for his
medication so the film is asking us to
think about how we fail people how is it
that that we're not paying attention
when we should or not giving care when
we should which is why I find it strange
that some of the primary detractors of
superhero movies that are more
disposable and have always asked for
something that's a little more ponderous
or serious are just as hateful of this
this film is a direct result of all of
those superhero fatigue articles that
journalists and film critics have been
publishing for the past few years
and if you're not happy with this either
then maybe you just don't like comic
book movies which is fine and that's
totally cool there's plenty that I don't
like either I'm just saying I feel like
there's a lot of hypocrisy going on
right now when people discuss comic book
films and it's the kind of thing that I
don't usually comment on unless it's
really apparent and in my opinion it is
I would say one of the biggest spoilers
in the movie is the idea that this girl
that he is seeing in his apartment he's
not actually seeing her she's there and
they maybe have bumped into each other
on the elevator a few times but there's
a scene where after he commits his first
murder he just bursts into her apartment
and the suggestion is that they have sex
and I remember being like what the fuck
that would never happen this creepy guy
who lives next to you just like opening
the door and you guys just start fucking
like that it makes no fucking sense
and I remember it kind of pissing me off
a little bit until they reveal that that
was all in his mind
watching the film a second time which I
did go back and see it a second time
yesterday it's a little more obvious
that they just don't do anything with
her character to build her up because
she's there to comfort him when his
mother is sick she's there to smile at
him and give him company when he needs
it and in the case of after his first
murder he's apparently aroused because
he imagines going and having sex with
this woman so this is like deeply
unsettling psychological trauma and
throughout the film they suggest that he
wants to kill himself he writes about it
in his notebook he says I hope that my
death makes more sense than my life he
often mimes shooting himself in the head
he gets a gun eventually and pretends to
go on the Murray show with Robert De
Niro and kill himself in front of the
audience and they're setting this up as
if that is what we are to anticipate
when he goes on the show but if you've
seen the film you know that's not what
he does while he's sitting there he
begins to think I think I'm actually
gonna kill this guy
this idol of mine and when he's being
taken away by the police somebody that
he inspired crashes into his car and
sets him free for a minute and he has
this moment amongst all of these people
that he's inspired to forget about the
world and all of their cares and just
commit crimes where he's able to stand
there and actually feel like people
accept him for who he is and the Waynes
are also killed in this moment and you
realized that he inspired the killer to
kill the Wayne's we fade out and I
honestly thought the film had ended at
this point but we get another scene
where he's in the psych ward and he's
being interviewed by someone there and
he's laughing uncontrollably just like
that first scene with the therapist it's
like a nice book end with the beginning
and she asks him what's so funny and
he's like I'm thinking of a joke and
she's like do you want to tell it to me
and he goes you wouldn't get it and you
realize he's picturing Bruce Wayne a
little boy and his parents dead thinking
about how he inspired that and I wish
the film just cut to black right then
because it's a great final line but we
get a little song moments and then he's
maybe he killed this woman and he's
running through the hallway or he's
imagining that he killed this woman
who's running through the hallway more
than likely he probably killed the woman
or at least her
very badly and is now running through
the hallway but I wish it just cut right
after that final line because it's such
a great final line and it makes you
think a little bit because we know the
history of what happens next so is the
Joker thinking I've inspired this
horrible thing to happen and more than
likely that will inspire this kid to do
something equally horrible or equally
great is he seeing the irony in that or
does he just think it's really goddamn
funny
he might just think it's funny but the
irony is there for anyone who wants to
look deeper into it
so despite issues with similarities to
other films and some storylines that I
didn't 100% love I think this is about
as good of a Joker origin story as we
could have hoped for and I really
enjoyed watching the movie but I do have
some things I want to discuss just like
I did in my original review I got things
on my mind and I don't usually like to
get into this kind of stuff on my
YouTube channel but I think in the case
of this movie it's kind of necessary and
I just I like the discussion when this
movie premiered at festivals many people
were concerned about it as I've said and
there were many critics who jumped on
Twitter and said this is a dangerous
film and it's going to change the world
and it's just a horrible thing for
anybody who might want to do something
awful and it will inspire this and that
and I remember thinking to myself what
like are we still having this
conversation are we still talking about
video games and movies are to blame for
horrible things that happen in the world
now look I know for a fact that somebody
saw a movie somebody saw a game and said
yep I'm gonna do something bad I'm sure
that's happened I'm positive that's
happened but that's the exception to the
rule and you should never blame the art
or the artists for that person's
terrible act it's not their fault this
is the same conversation that film
critics newscasters and bloggers have
been having for decades when Natural
Born Killers came out there was an
absurd amount of controversy over the
violin
in that movie and what it might inspire
the same for a Clockwork Orange the same
for taxi driver and even more recently
with the Dark Knight in 2008 people in
the UK were very concerned about its
rating and that it wasn't harsh enough
for the amount of violence in the film
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom had
a lot of controversy because of the
heart ripping out scene and its PG
rating this is never ending but in the
case of this movie I find it honestly
laughable I am genuinely baffled that
anyone saw this movie and thought it was
a dangerous film there have been more
violent comic book films in the past few
years than Joker as I said in my
original review Deadpool and Deadpool 2
are both more violent than this movie
it's just that the hero of that film
doesn't take it seriously and just
thinks it's very funny kind of like the
Joker taxi driver came out 43 years ago
and as I said I just re-watched the film
and it is far worse content-wise holy
shit
within Joker there's a scene where the
director himself Martin Scorsese is in
the movie in a car using really harsh
language talking about killing this
woman and it's like could you imagine if
todd phillips put himself in joker as a
character that encourages joker to maybe
kill one day like fuck the world would
blow up social media would implode if
that happened 43 years ago okay this is
like nothing drive is also more violence
which is similarly about a loner man who
is done wrong in a certain way and kinda
just loses it this is by no means new
and I have a theory critics love
hyperbole you get quotes when you use
hyperbole did you know that I've
actually never been quoted I've never
been quoted in a trailer or a blu-ray
release or a poster nothing and I kind
of like it actually I kind of like that
I've never been quoted that I know of
but social media especially Twitter they
reward you for extremes the more extreme
you are the more attention you get and
when you come out of a Joker screening
and say it's going
blow up the world then you get all this
attention but it's not the kind of
attention I would ever want the last
thing I want to say about this is on the
character of Batman we all know that
when he was a boy his parents were
killed right in front of him because of
this and the crime in his city and how
bad things had become he decides to
train himself to become Batman vigilante
somebody who dresses up like a fucking
bat and beats the shit out of criminals
that's a character taking tragedy and
using it to find a good path that is
still filled with a lot of bad shit as
the best Batman films have shown us and
for some reason we seem more ok with
that the idea of taking the tragedy of a
character and showing this affect them
with a positive outcome that's always
nice to see of course but it's also a
lot less realistic the Joker is
essentially the same as Batman he just
goes the wrong route he was affected by
tragedy and chooses the wrong path and
for whatever reason for some this is
morally ambiguous and I don't see it
that way at all I see it as a more
realistic portrayal of what could happen
to someone who is dealt a lot of
tragedies in life and that's the
contrast of Batman and the Joker that's
the interesting juxtaposition for these
characters why is it that we're so
acceptive of somebody who deals with the
same shit just in a different way
because he doesn't kill random people I
get that but that's the fucking point
this is the creation of a super villain
just as M night Shyamalan split was also
the creation of a super villain this is
nothing new and it genuinely fucking
floors me that anybody thought it was
now one last thing I do when I say which
I probably should have said earlier
because some people like to pause the
video and leave a comment without
actually hearing everything I have to
say if you didn't like this movie I
totally understand that I'm just saying
like the pre release hysteria I find
horrific ly stupid that's all like if
you saw the movie had a genuine reaction
didn't like to move whatever that's
normal I mean I've been talking about
opinion
this website for ten years now so I'm
totally used to people who are adverse
to mine that's that's totally fine
it's the prehistory it's the pre-release
hysteria hype that just fucking I was
like this is stupid I just hope that we
don't do that again
I would love if we wouldn't do that
again please don't do that again
guys thank you so much as always for
watching look forward to more reviews
very soon I'm curious to know what you
all thought of Joker thank you guys as
always if you liked this you can click
right here and get stuck man eyes
[Music]